[Music]
oh I'm Ariel welcome to my tiny house
bye miss where I live off-grid in the
mountains of northern Wyoming I'm gonna
show you around today so I walk around
for my door here I have these little
flower boxes that kind of give me my
skirting slush let me plant flowers and
herbs and stuff around the house which
is nice I've got a propane line that
comes into the house here this is for my
backup heater and it runs underneath
here to where I'll show you the propane
tanks I've got a vent for my direct vent
propane heater and that has to be kept
clear at all winter it is clear now but
in the winter that you have to keep that
shoveled otherwise you'll have things
fumes backing up in the house I keep the
the entire perimeter of the house
shoveled because I have things I need to
get to and vents the entire way around
the house that have to be accessed in
the winter right now my snow pile is
waist to shoulder-high midwinter it was
well over my head level with the eaves
in spots so there was quite a bit of
snow but I did keep the entire perimeter
of the house clear just so I could
access and fill and vent everything so
as you come on around the corner here
I've got most of my propane tanks I have
two hundred pounder tanks here if you
live somewhere cold it's kind of
important to have a bigger tank because
when it gets well below zero the very
small tanks have a hard time vaporizing
sufficiently for things to actually draw
a propane even if they're not empty so I
do have two of these under this little
cover I've got two 40-pound ones they
work fine but when it gets really cold
they definitely will not use the full
tank before it stops vaporizing and I
use the big ones one of these is
connected to the intake I just showed
you over there as you come around this
side I have the vent for my water heater
I've got a ten gallon tank propane water
heater so it does have to vent outside
that's another thing that has to be kept
snow free in the winter and yes the snow
did get higher than that had to be
shoveled down so that that can vent
properly next door is the
intake for my water it does have a
hookup if I had a pressurized like
garden hose I could connect that but I
don't and on the other side is just a
little intake where I can fill it from a
water jug which is what I do
[Music]
so those just close up to keep bugs and
things out
[Music]
this is where the power actually comes
into the house if you were parking this
wherever randomly like an RV this is the
main power under the sink in here is
kind of the breaker box for the house
this cord is actually coming from the
other end of the house because this was
set up to just run as an RV and when I
put in the batteries and all the solar
related equipment the only place that
made sense to have them was the other
end of the house so the power is simply
being piped from that end of the house
into this end to go to everything else
which is not necessarily the way you
would design it if you are planning
ahead as you can see from the moose scat
very close to the house only a few feet
away that I do get wildlife very close
to my house here in the woods even to
the point of having startled a teenage
moose that was laying down with his back
resting up against the house this winter
when I didn't realize he was here and he
didn't know I was coming home so the
next thing I've got is I have a sink
drain that comes out from under the
house so you can't see because of the
remaining snowbank it does drain
directly onto the ground this little
wooden tunnel gives it room to continue
to drain all winter without icing up
with the snow that falls off the roof
but it does just drain down pretty much
vanishes right away into my very rocky
soil that I have here at the top of this
little hill but that prevents it just
from getting any possibility of getting
plugged up with ice over the winter so
that's what that box is there for it
just moves out of the way in the summer
so they don't have to trip over it so
right here you can see where my chimney
comes out from my little wood stove
that's 3-inch pellet stove pipe actually
and it seems to work pretty well since
I've got a very miniature wood stove it
would be better as far as air flow if it
went straight through the roof but the
wood stove was a later addition for me
and I didn't want to deal with cutting
in a hole in my roof so it comes out
through the wall and goes up and seems
to vent pretty well here I've got
another propane tank that goes to a
separate heater and it was just a little
shorter to run the line for it by
placing it here versus having at the end
of the house where all the other propane
tanks are this is my generator zone tiny
house it keeps it warm and dry not that
a generator really has to be worn but
when I had it just under a tarp I had to
take the tarp off so it could vent while
it was running and then when it would
snow while it was running and not tarped
ice would pile up on it and melt because
it was warm and run down into little
things that wear it when it shut off
would ice up and not want to ever start
again so the little box has resolved all
that it also lets me keep a little
funnel in the side for filling it with
oil or gasoline right here you can see
where the power cord comes out of it and
runs into the house and I've got a handy
little prop right here so that when it's
running and it's warmer that's why the
flap is here it can be raining or
snowing and it can still circulate
enough air that it doesn't overheat
there is a fully opened end on the well
mostly open end on this side which is
where the exhaust is pointed so that
most of the noise and exhaust sister
directed down this hill and directly
away from the house so the box in
addition to protecting it helps a lot
with reducing any audible noise
especially from inside the house it's
it's a very quiet background noise when
it's running as you come on around here
I do have a little grill it does not
always reside right beside the house in
fact in the summer it's out by the fire
pit where we do most of the grilling but
for accessibility in the winter it is
right here I've got a oversized very
sturdy tarp just to protect it for the
snow loads we get around here but this
is a great size for doing you know you
can grow meat for several people if
you're doing you know multiple different
dinner items on the grill at once you
know it's still feed two or three last
night we had elk steaks cooked on here
they were that was from an elk that was
harvested here on the property this uses
wood pellets it's got a little pellet
bin right here so it's a little bit like
a pellet stove just feeds that into
there and so it both is grilling and
smoking meat at the same time and and
just gives things a really nice flavor
doesn't dry anything out and it keeps
everything all the juices sealed inside
over here I've got a little what looks
like an outhouse and it was once upon a
time the outhouse for a logging camp
that used to be here I do not use it as
an outhouse for me it is my little
garden shed which allows me to keep
something
under a roof that I don't really want to
have in the house so let me show you
that here I've got just a tarp door
there was originally a wood door on here
but long before I moved here it had
fallen off and therefore rotted into the
ground so the tarp door works just fine
and inside I can keep things like gas
cans water bottles for filling my water
tank an extra propane bottle shovels
rakes gardening tools all that kind of
thing that you don't really want to have
inside your house so up the hill here
you can see my solar panels it would be
a little handier to have them down here
beside the house but what I was finding
is especially in the winter because I
live on the north side of a hill which
is not ideal for off-grid life but is
the available parking option for my
house they just did not get a lot of
sunlight down here so they are clear up
the hill and you can probably see if the
cable runs down through the trees and
then into the back of the house where I
had pointed that out and that just lets
them get a lot more sunlight especially
in the winter as you come over this way
you can see I've got a large wood pile
that is both for my wood stove inside
and for my fire pit which is still under
snow at the moment outside so over here
you can see the top of the frame for my
swing set I took the seat off for the
winter just so the snow wouldn't tear it
up there we've got a fire pit if you can
just use your imagination a bunch of
little seats and chairs and benches and
it's a pretty cool place to hang out in
the winter just beyond that kind of from
the corner of the woodpile the hallway
underneath the dead tree that came down
over the winter and to the kind of back
of the clearing is about a hundred foot
by 25 foot garden which as you can see I
can't plant quite yet because there's a
lot of snow to melt first okay so that's
kind of everything around the outside of
my house and now I'm going to invite you
guys inside and we can take a look at
what's actually in my tiny house
[Music]
okay so in my mudroom here I've got a
coat rack as you can see pretty well
blanketed with coats pants scarves I do
live in a cold climate clearly and I
have certainly not minimized down to
just one of those so I have a full rack
below here I've got shoe storage you can
see little hooks here that are great for
hanging smaller pairs of footwear and
then I've got a mud tray just for boots
and other buddy footwear that lets me
set things in there so it can kind of
drip dry before making a mess all over
the house so that keeps that footwear
scene kind of contained to the mudroom
corner which is pretty nice on this side
I've got the living room which also
becomes a guest bed the couch was built
by a friend and I and there is storage
I'll show you in a minute under all of
that but the guest bed part yeah two
little screws that hold this in place in
this whole panel just rest right on the
little lip built for it drop in and
secure it then the back of the couch
fits right there and makes a little
lounge guest bed whatever you'd like to
use that for if you want to expand that
space so that works pretty well for
having friends over to sleep on I've
slept on it or if you know just a person
or two want to lay there and watch a
movie together have a little more space
to relax underneath the couch is I've
got two separate storage bins these
cushions just pick up and there's a lid
like this this one has random things
like my little carry-on luggage extra
towels and sheets my tiny little vacuum
just a few of those random things they
don't have to access real often but
they're kind of bulky and it's just nice
to have them out of the way in a place
like that totally separate and the other
part of the L here there's actually a
gap of about six inches in between these
two bins and this one as you can see has
open slots versus closed so it
ventilates well because this is my power
box and sometimes the equipment running
in there does get not really hop a
little warm so I want air to be able to
circulate
and I don't want sheets and towels piled
on top of battery cables so those boxes
are totally separate this one you can
see inside as well
okay so first over here is my battery
bank I've got five 155 amp hour
batteries that's about 500 pounds of
batteries that's my storage for all my
electricity whether it comes from the
generator or the Sun when it's coming
from the generator this is a charge
controller that lets that power be
safely stored in the batteries without
overcharging or blowing them up on this
side there is a charge controller does
the exact same thing for power coming
from the solar panels it again let's
safely feed into the battery bank and
not overcharge in between I've got a
little monitor right here that just lets
me know what's going on with the
batteries how full they are what whether
they're charging or emptying all of that
and then as power leaves the batteries
it goes through this inverter which
turns it from DC power back into AC that
can be used by any regular thing you
would plug into an outlet in the house
so above my living room we've got
another little storage loft this little
cabinet in the middle is you mostly use
for food storage I do have a garden when
it's not winter and I do can things and
you just have to have some room to put
those things so that's in there people
ask me how I get to this loft I don't
have a ladder for it I'm just a little
bit tall and I have a couch so this
works just fine and I can reach
everything in the cupboard and doors in
the right order and then just so they're
a little you know some files of
paperwork things that have to go
somewhere and things like that that's
just kind of again not super frequently
accessed storage but I can get to it
when I need to as you come around this
way have bookshelves and photograph
bookshelves on the two sides here that I
love to read I get a lot of my books
from the library or borrow from friends
or things like that but I did have some
old books I like antique books I
realized I could have a Kindle and it
would take up a lot less space but a
Kindle doesn't have old binding glue and
brittle paper and I just like those
things so I kept some old books some of
those
my one grandfather who really loved to
read that he passed on to me and just
some other ones that are either
important to me or coal and old or hard
to access somewhere else easy to borrow
from so that's why I kept some books as
well so here's my little tiny wood stove
you don't need a very big wood stove to
heat a very small space people ask me
what square foot adjusts would actually
heat I'm not sure but it would for sure
do more than my house because this makes
it almost at times uncomfortably hot in
here which is easily remedied by opening
a window it does take very tiny wood
this old milk crate is my wood bin this
is about the average size of logs that I
burn in there and that is probably
smaller than most people's kindling you
can put four or five of those in the
stove at a time it radiates a lot of
heat there is tiles on the floor under
the stove I know they look like a wood
grain but that is actually tile so any
little coals or anything that get
knocked out are not going to start a
fire I've got a little ash bucket right
here that was a dog treat tin I believe
at one point in its life lets me scoop
ashes out again it's metal so if
anything hot goes in there it's not
going to start a fire the pot on top of
the stove I don't use a lot because I
tend to create enough moisture in here
by breathing and cooking and other
things but I think it's really bone dry
and I need some humidity I can just put
some water in there and let it simmer
the chimney again goes through an elbow
and goes out the side wall so that I
didn't have to cut a hole in the roof
and the wood walls are protected by this
shield that my local welding shop helped
make for me it's just eighth inch steel
it's on little feet you can see at the
bottom that keep it up about that far
off the ground so air can freely
circulate the whole way behind it this
wood stove is smoking hot right now and
this shield is still quite warm to the
touch but I can touch it and the wood
behind it is genuinely cool so that
works really well to keep everything
safe and fireproof right around the
stove it also does an excellent job of
heating the house like I said it's
having the air circulate through a space
this small just is not a problem I don't
seem to need a fan or anything to make
that happen
and it's a super comfy cozy warm heat
for a cold climate up above it here I've
got a little sign with my house name on
it
people ask me out what how I got the
name I don't speak Welsh
I'm not Welsh as far as I know I just
have always thought it was a really
pretty language and findeth is Welsh for
my nest which is the name I chose for my
tiny house so on this side across from
the wood stove is my dining room this
little table as you can see spends most
of its life folded up and compact and
out of the way which is very handy when
I need a table top or when I have a
couple friends over for dinner this
little leg just folds out like that the
swings out provides its support and the
other side does do the same thing I'm
not gonna bother to flip the whole table
around but I would have to swing the
table this way and with both leaves fold
it out I do have a really big work
surface if I need that for something
which is handy though the rest of the
time it can be out of the way because it
takes up most of the house the other
nice thing about this little table is
that it has six drawers three on each
side that just pull out like this and I
use them as places to keep you know tape
and paper and staples and envelopes and
all that kind of little thing up and
down both sides there so it really does
provide a great deal of storage and
workspace if you need and stays out of
the way
also my curtains here are blackout
blinds I made these myself from some
larger like full-length drapes when they
were on sale I just cut them up and
resold them to fit my windows and they
spend most of their time closed so
they're kind of wrinkled up but they do
a really good job of blocking light if I
need them to which is nice and the loft
if I need to sleep in or if I just want
to sleep to a normal time and it's
summer and it's daylight at 4 or if I
want other people to not see through my
windows which isn't a big deal most the
time because there's nobody else around
here in the woods on this side I've also
got a little backup heater on the tour
outside you can see the extra propane
line that came into this this was
installed before I had a wood stove so
now I actually have three heat sources
but this is a catalytic propane heater
so it is not vented it does create extra
moisture and
sometimes a slight odor inside so I
wouldn't use it for full time heating
but it's absolutely great to have as a
backup because it does not require any
electricity or anything it's a nice warm
radiant heat it can heat the whole house
up pretty quick and it's not a very
expensive heater so that is just kind of
an emergency backup thing that is
somewhat redundant since I also have the
wood stove but on really cold nights
because the wood stoves so small and it
will burn out after four or five hours
if I'm going to sleep all night or be
gone at work all day if it's negative
thirty something outside I will often
just turn that on low as well
so that I know the house will not be too
cold while I'm gone and once the stove
burns out
[Music]
we're here we've got the my little steep
staircase up to my loft there are
drawers built into every step here the
very bottom one is actually a heat vent
but other than that the whole way up of
summer soul each drawer gets
progressively slightly narrower but so
the bottom ones are pretty big I use
them mostly for clothing storage folded
things shirts socks that kind of thing
and there is no real rail but I don't
know how well the camera shows this
little handle bar here does work quite
nicely to be a handrail as you climb the
stairs because they are steep and it is
a little bit more ladder like over here
I've got my TV screen I'm not connected
to any kind of TV service but I have an
Amazon Prime account and every now and
then when my wireless Internet's working
well enough I do stream a movie and
laying down on the couch this is a
pretty great spot to have it and it's
out of the way I also have a little
curtain across the loft here most of it
is walled off this is a cabinet that
opens on the other side in the loft
bedroom but with wood heat and how hot
the house gets and that I like the
downstairs to be nice and cozy and heat
rises but I don't like sleeping really
hot the wall and then the curtain that I
added as a temporary measure does block
a lot of the heat transfer you can
probably see there's open space above
there so some heat gets up there
but it keeps a lot of it downstairs so
when I want to go to bed the lofts not
like 4 million degrees so that seems to
be working pretty well then I'll show
you what is actually behind the curtain
so here I've got my little extra storage
cabinet these doors swing out and the
mattress is in the way so you kind of
have to do that but they have random
things like snowshoes and extra foam and
some more backpacking gear some things
that are not in the van because it can't
be frozen but this is just a nice extra
little bit of storage and gives me my
privacy and heat blocking wall for my
bedroom so this is my little loft bed
it's hard to make a loft bed very
tightly you probably won't find any tiny
house often super neat and tidy but this
is a four inch thick a very firm film
mattress from Ikea which works really
well for me my back feels best when they
sleep on firmer mattresses plus it's not
very thick so I get more Headroom as you
can see I can sit up the whole way in my
loft and that's pretty nice though most
the time I spend laying down on the bed
even if I'm working up here during the
day I've got this little antique chest
off on the side that keeps a few other
odds and ends of things like some my old
journals some sewing supplies that kind
of thing and then I've just got room for
a clock and box of tissues and it's kind
of like my little nightstand and again
when I need to sleep and it's really
bright outside because of snow or full
moons or just the early sun rises we get
it in the summer here in the north
my little curtains do a pretty good job
of blocking all of the sunlight
[Music]
over here you've got my kitchen which is
the biggest part of my house I do cook a
lot and so when I was designing my tiny
house from the start that was the most
important thing to me I do have a good
bit of counter space for a tiny house I
have a knife magnet up on the wall which
is nice because it keeps everything
organized and out of the way I have
quite a few drawers and a lot of storage
space here
big cupboard that could probably be
better organized for all kinds of
containers and cookie sheets I use two
of these bigger drawers as kind of
pantry door drawers for some dry goods
items coconut nuts cornmeal sugars that
kind of thing I have a 20 inch stove
this stove does fit in a pretty compact
area but the oven has a good bit of
space
I can put a my giant roast pan with a
20-plus pound turkey in there you can
fit a full-size cookie sheet in there so
if you do much cooking or baking you
don't have to get smaller than normal
pans and and all of that everything will
fit four burners this is a propane stove
it does a great job of cooking the only
thing is because of its size you can't
put four giant pots all in the same time
you would have to kind of stagger them
there is a hood vent with a light and a
fan that you can hear kick on so you can
vent that as you're cooking above here
I've got an open shelf with just all of
my pots and pans and some mixing bowls
here I've got more counter space I've
got my little fruit bucket that's
running low even when it's snowing
outside I do some indoor gardening I've
got some sprouts starting here in the
light from the window those trays I'll
stack up so they can be out of the way I
have a double sink this is also from
Ikea and is absolutely perfect I'm so
glad I took the space to put in two
sinks because of the volume of cooking I
do and therefore the volume of dishes
it's just really really nice again I've
got a you know off grid system so when
you hear the water pump kick on like
that it's being powered by my battery
bank at the other end of
house-this dead corner has the water
tank in it that you could see me fill
from the outside so that's what's just
taking up all the space under the drain
board it's a thirty five gallon water
tank plus the water heater has ten
gallons so that's about 45 gallons when
everything is full and again the water
heater is run off of propane as well to
keep the water nice and hot then I have
just shelving for dishes and bowls and
plates this little jug I just usually
use for drinking water because I like
room-temperature drinking water it also
seems to work out really handy
coincidentally that way if I fill this
and a fill the tank about the time I
tend to empty this this one gets empty
which is kind of nice because there's no
visible gauge on this so I have a pretty
good idea and again this wasn't planned
it just happens to be what I've observed
as they use water that I know that I'm
going to need to fill this if this is
just about empty so that kind of works
out well and then I've got some more
storage up here for things like oats and
lentils and flour and salt I here at the
back into the house I've got my fridge
and freezer they're not very big but
there are separate compartments that's
my little freezer that is the fridge
it's not stuffed clear full right now it
often is but it's plenty of space even
when you do a lot of cooking to pretty
much get everything in there with no
problem I'm sure someone's gonna ask why
I don't keep food outside with my
massive snow banks why instead have a
fridge that is electric and is my
biggest power user for my battery bank
that would be because of the wildlife I
have got bears wolves coyotes foxes pine
martens Ravens and just about everything
else you can think of that would like to
eat food so keeping it outside it's not
a very good idea up above here I've got
room for things like my big roast pan
recipe box small alcohol storage all
that kind of thing is right there as you
come this way this is the bathroom door
we'll go in there in just a minute but
I've got this little built-in shelf that
lets me keep glasses and mugs and jars
and all that kind of thing if I take a
step this way I've got my big deep
pantry you can see my spice collection
on the door I actually have overflowed
and there's still some spices in the
cupboards
maybe I need to add another rack down on
the lower part of the door and then
these shelves are pretty deep which
makes them kind of dark but I can keep
quite a bit of things in there and that
works pretty well because if you locked
me in my tiny house I could probably eat
for several months before I started to
have to go hungry I might run out of
variety but I wouldn't starve so here
I've got a little vanity and there's a
mirror and behind that as a bunch of
little shelves the mirror swings out
that gives me space to just store all
kinds of you know bathroom products
which is handy
got a little shelf below there and then
my nature's head composting toilets
along with my mini tiny house trashcan
which is made out of a toilet paper
holder which gives me a cute little
trash can with a lid as you can see by
looking inside it this is not used as a
shower normally it works and everything
is fully operational but because I carry
my water by hand it takes up a lot of
energy to to fill that water and a
shower uses a lot of water so I usually
shower at the gym and do not use this
though there's no reason I couldn't if I
wanted to so instead it's kind of my
hanging clothes storage I do use these
higher hangers which are kind of nice if
you're anywhere with a small amount of
space because the way the hook is set
down into the hanger you get a few extra
inches of actually hanging space on your
clothing and below that is just kind of
my other odds-and-ends storage a place
to keep toilet paper paper towels extra
boxes of tissues folding chairs so if I
have some guests over I have that closed
drying rack etc so that is what lives in
my shower
[Music]
so that's my tiny house again this is
fine if which is means - and this is my
home upgrade in the mountains of
northern Wyoming if you want to find out
more info about my house or what I do or
a daily life or things that work I
think's adult all of that follow my blog
finest that's FY n YT H dot blog
spot.com or my youtube channel which is
Finance spelled the same way at YouTube
[Music]
you